File System
-----------------
Read the ls(1) to familiarise yourself with the available options (don’t try to
remember them all, except -l (that’s lowercase L, not I), -R, -a and -h).
Write down the ls command you would use to do the following; most of them will
require the -l option and generally some others:

Q1.

(a) List the contents of your home directory recursively. You can use either
«~» or «$HOME» to refer to your home directory from the shell.


Aa. ls -R ~ | less


(b). List all files, including hidden files and directories, in your home directory,
non-recursively. Hidden files or directories are those that begin with a dot, and
are not usually shown in ls output.

Ab. ls -a


(c) List the contents of /lib using ls -l /lib. What is meant by the «foo -> bar»
notation?

Ac. It means the listed file is a symbolic link that points to the file. If the file is open
the file that the symbolic link points to will be opened.


(d) List the files in your home directory, with file sizes shown with human-friendly
units (ie. bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes).


Ad. ls -lh



(e) List the info about a directory, and only that directory, without ls recursing
into that directory. In other words, the permissions etc. of the directory itself,
not the contents of the directory.
The “size” of a directory in the ls listing does not tell you how much disk space
the contents of the directory consume. Use du -s directory to measure that.

Ae. ls -ld Documents

Special Permissions
---------------------

Q1. Fill in the blanks to convert between octal and symbolic notation; all but the last
two you would be likely to find on a real system.

A1.
644  = rw-r--r--
755  = rwxr-xr-x
177  = --xrwxrwx
4733 = rwsr-xr-x
3070 = ---rws--T 
2060 = ---rwS---

Q2. If you look around the typical Unix filesystem long enough, you find some unusual
permissions. Take for example the permissions that are classically set on the files in
/usr/games/, and the permissions on some of the files in /var/games/.

The files in /var/games/ are scoreboard files, which need to be updateable by the
games when run as different users. However, we don’t want users to be able to edit
them by themselves, only by the games that the user is running. Looking at these
permissions, describe how this works. Hint: users are not meant to be in the
‘games’ group in order to play games; indeed that would be rather bad.


Q3.
Assume you see a directory which ls -l describes as «drwxrwsr-x». Write a
paragraph to completely describe the effect of this permission set.
You should consult ls(1) for some of the subtleties of the printed permissions with
regard to special bits and execute bits, if you haven’t already.


A3.


Q4. Give a typical default umask value and describe its effect.

A4.

