Assessment.

Q2. Imagine you are setting up a wireless network for a client. How might you evaluate
the reliability of your network? You should think about the factors that impact the
performance of the network in comparison of wired networks.

A2. The placement of access points should take into account the surroundings and take note of
interference and absorbtion object. When placeing an access point you should walk around with a
device to make sure everywhere you want to use it has no less than half wifi bars/strength. For
a wireless network it should not be a primary link (such as building to building) so there should
still be some physical cable to a location that will use wifi. Another factor to take into account
is if there will be many users - RTS/CTS should be turned on. Interference Robustness feature
of AP should also be enabled so that a device does not use the 1Mbps bit rate which is often
interrupted. Which 802.11 standard used is important because they run at different GHz bands
(higher frequency = less interference from customer devices), different speeds, different ranges,
and power consumptions (higher frequency = more power to broadcast).

Q3. Add notes for 802.11ac to Table 5.1 “Comparison of Different Wi-Fi Protocols” (page
67).

A3.802.11ac
Max signal rate: 1.7 - 2.5 theoretical speed.   
Operating frequency band: 5GHz
Range: 100m
Non-overlapping channgels: 
Interference sources: cordless phone.
Standard approved: Yes
WiFi CERTIFIED: Yes


Q4. Suggest a location for a single access point to satisfy the needs of the site survey
shown in Figure 5.1 “Wireless Site Survey” (page 81).

A4.Above the stairs on floor 1.

Q5. [Optional] If you have a WPA2-capable wireless-enabled laptop, try registering it for
use on the student wireless network. This will be using WPA2-Enterprise.

A5.

Q6. Explain the relationships between the following terms, you may need to do some
research: WEP, WPA, WPA2 and 802.11i.
Explain the relationships between the following terms, you may need to do some
research: RADIUS, 802.1X, EAP and EAP-TTLS.

A6. They are security protocols. WEP uses a pre-shared key to control access and uses
the key to encrypt packets. The packets are decrypted at the access point. WEP did not
change the keys peridoically which was a big crptographic weakness (collect enough packets
that have been encrypted by the same key = crack it).
WPA is an improvement on WEP and changes the keys periodically (default key timeout is 60min,
good practice is 15min). WPA2 is a higher level preotection than WPA (uses TKIP or the AES but
before the standard was complete) as it uses the Advanced Encrytion Standard (AES) - the 802.11i
standard. Not all deveices (older devices) are able to use 802.11i so WPA2 also offers
encryption with TKIP - WPA2 TKIP/AES. 

Q7. Some new Wi-Fi devices often come with a feature called “Wi-Fi Protected Setup”
make it easier to set up a secure wireless connection. Do some research (you must
consult and cite only authoritative sources) and describe how this system works; in
particular, describe the PIN and PBC methods. The Wi-Fi Alliance have a useful
downloadable presentation Wi-Fi Protected Setup18 covering this technology. There
is also a whitepaper available, which requires registration, but goes into more
detail than the downloadable presentation.

A7. Ref - "http://www.wi-fi.org/knowledge-center/faq/how-does-wi-fi-protected-setup-work"

Push Button Configuration (PBC): There is a button on the access point/wireless router that
a user can press to connect devices. The issue with this is that any device within the
'two minute period' can also join which is baaaad. - not supported on all devices.

PIN entry: In all Wi-fi protected setup networks a PIN is required. The PIN is unique and
is usually a sticker on the access point/router, or for some devices such as TV or screen
the PIN can be dynamically generated. It is used to make sure that only the intended
device is added to the network and stops unintended people from gaining access without
the PIN. - supported on all devices. 

